Do you have relatives that are presently not serving Jehovah?
I think most of us do, and we're not alone.
Even our Lord Jesus had that same circumstance.
Even though His half-brothers knew about the miracles He was performing,
the Bible says that they were not expressing faith in Jesus as the Messiah.
Well, it was so bad, can you imagine, that when Jesus was being put to death,
it appears that His brothers were not there.
Do you remember the account where Jesus was on the torture stake
and He looked down at the disciple and asked Him, basically,
to become responsible for His mother?
They weren't there to support Him.
But what happened just a short while after Jesus had been resurrected?
Well, it was amazing because some of those half-brothers were found,
along with Jesus' mother, with the disciples fervently praying.
Can you imagine how Jesus must have felt?
Can you imagine the joy He must have experienced to see them now beginning to express faith?
Well, maybe you've had that experience, too.
Maybe one of your relatives, maybe your mate, one of your children,
one of your siblings, has now come to serve Jehovah.
How wonderful, what a joyful feeling, really nothing could compare to it.
Well, what was it that helped Jesus' half-brothers to go from being faithless
to putting faith in Him?
And what can you and I learn from that example?
Well, let's address that question.
What was it that helped Jesus' brothers to acquire faith?
Well, here's the number one thing.
Jesus was patient with His relatives.
Now, that's an important point because look at how Jesus was treated by His relatives.
Would you look with me at Mark chapter 3 and verse 21?
It says there, but when His relatives heard about it,
they went out to seize Him, for they were saying He has gone out of His mind.
Jesus did not take offense, even though His relatives were trying to seize Him,
even though they said He had gone crazy.
Have your relatives perhaps said some things like that to you?
Jesus did not take offense, He was patient.
Well, in fact, after His resurrection, look what Jesus did.
Let's go to 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and let's read together verse 7.
It says, after that, He appeared to James, then to all the apostles.
Now, this is just a very small detail, but did you notice what it said?
So Jesus appeared to James.
Well, now, we don't know what Jesus said to James when He appeared to him,
but the point is that Jesus made a special effort to appear to His half-brother James.
Well, James must have deeply appreciated that special attention from Jesus.
And why do we say that?
Well, Jesus, excuse me, James went on to become a respected elder in the congregation in Jerusalem.
In fact, you may remember that in Acts chapter 15,
when the apostles and older men gathered in Jerusalem to consider the matter about circumcision,
it seems that James was the one who was presiding at that meeting.
Well, what had happened?
James had gone from being a faithless person to now being a pillar in the congregation.
James and his other half-brother Jude both had the privilege of writing letters
that were included in the Christian Greek scriptures.
When I'm in the following video, please take careful note of what helped a family member to be a person with faith.
The truth came to our home through my mother.
I was never seriously interested in the truth.
Where we grew up, education was very important.
My person needed to make money and live a lavish life.
So that's the life I chose to study, to get higher education so that I could have what others had.
Although they could see that I wasn't interested in the truth, my mother and brother did not give up on me.
When I came back from school in January, my mother ordered the examining the scriptures daily booklet for me.
The year after year, I always had the examining the scriptures daily booklet and the Bible.
She made sure that although I wasn't attending meetings, at least I had literature.
Besides that, my younger brother, the one I was close to, decided to take the truth seriously.
When I came back from school, I saw my brother getting a Bible study of his own.
And I was surprised to see him studying the Bible and noticed that he had prepared.
He cared about and loved what he was learning.
That's when I understood that the Bible changes lives.
A scripture that comes to mind is Hosea 11 verse 4.
There it shows that Jehovah pulls us with cords of love and kindness.
In my situation, Jehovah did this.
So I made the decision to be regular at the congregation meetings.
And I finally started studying the Bible with someone in 2007 and got baptized in 2008.
My family really encouraged me. They never gave up on me.
And I encouraged parents not to give up on their children.
They must continue encouraging them and have the hope that Jehovah God will draw them to the organization because they have good hearts.
Well, brothers and sisters, we want that same experience for our relatives.
What can we do to help them to grow in faith?
Well, let's talk briefly about three things. Here's the first one.
Be patient with your relatives.
We want to imitate the example of our wonderful God, Jehovah.
Do you remember when the nation of Israel went to stray so many times?
Well, in Jeremiah chapter 44, the Bible says that Jehovah sent his prophets again and again.
He was very patient with his people.
We want to be patient with our relatives too. Don't give up on them.
And then second, we want to be tactful.
We want to look for ways that we can stimulate their interest in the truth.
It's true. Jesus described the message of the truth like water that could lead to everlasting life.
But have you ever tried to drink from a fire hydrant?
That's a very difficult thing to do.
We don't want our relatives to choke because we're forcing too much information or with too much force or power.
Instead, we want our relatives to feel refreshed by the truth.
Well, whether our relatives feel choked or refreshed will really depend on how we go about explaining the truth to them.
So be tactful and speak to them in a loving way that will stimulate their interest.
Let's go to that third point.
We want to show empathy to our relatives and let our conduct speak for us.
You know, when we first learn the truth, our relatives may not be sure of how now this is going to affect our relationship with them.
Instead of thinking of many, many different things that we could say, it's important to remember that what we do is going to speak far more loudly than the things that we say.
You know there's a saying that says, I'd rather see a sermon than hear one, isn't that true?
One sister named Pauline realized that instead of talking to her husband so much about the truth, she needed to set a good example.
Well, when her husband observed the good effect that the Bible was having on his wife and on his children, that was the thing that opened his mind and opened his heart to the message of the good news.
You just don't know, brothers and sisters, the good effect of your conduct, of your example, on your relatives.
You know, about two years ago I was out in California at a regional convention, and a sister came up to me with two brothers.
Now, she had been raised by her faithful mother in the truth, but she had gone away from the truth for more than 30 years.
She watched a broadcast, and she was moved to return.
She then reached out to her brother, who was also away from the truth for more than 30 years.
He decided to come back too, and then the two of them reached out to their other brother, who was also away from more than 30 years, and he also came back.
Here are the three of them were in front of me.
Well, the sister said, I think my mother is going to have to be resurrected twice.
We were all out of the truth when she died.
When she sees us in the new world, she'll be so shocked I'm sure she'll need to be resurrected again.
What's the point?
The good example of their mother stayed with them even long after their mother had passed away.
Brothers and sisters, Jehovah can use you to help your relatives.
They might be faithless right now, but with your help they can become full of faith.
It worked in the case of Jesus, and it can work for you too.
Now, brother Ralph Walls, a helper to the personnel committee, will consider the next talk of this symposium.
Remember, faithless people can acquire faith, prominent ones.